README.markdown, before:

<p align=right>
  Documentation for:
  <a href=https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console/tree/v0.1.0>v0.1.0</a>
  <a href=https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console/tree/v0.2.0>v0.2.0</a>
</p>

Web Console [![Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/web-console.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/web-console) [![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/gsamokovarov/web-console.png)](https://travis-ci.org/gsamokovarov/web-console)
===========

There is no doubt that `rails console` is one of the most useful commands,
Rails has to offer. However, sometimes you can't easily access it, or maybe
you want to share it with a coworker without configuring remote desktop
server.

This is where _Web Console_ comes to the rescue. It gives you the same
`rails console` experience, right in the browser. It's not just a tool that
let's you evaluate Ruby code, there are a lot of those. It's a [VT100]
compatible terminal, running `rails console`.

You can see _Web Console_ in action at this [video].

Requirements
------------

_Web Console_ has been tested on the following rubies.

* _MRI Ruby_ 2.0.0
* _MRI Ruby_ 1.9.3
* _JRuby_ 1.7.4

_Rubunius_ in 1.9 mode may work, but it hasn't been tested.

_Web Console_ has been built explicitly for _Rails 4_. For a _Rails 3_
compatible build, check out the [web-console-rails3] project.

Installation
------------

To install it in your current application, add the following to your `Gemfile`.

```ruby
group :development do
  gem 'web-console', '~> 0.3.0'
end
```

After you save the `Gemfile` changes, make sure to run `bundle install` and
restart your server for the _Web Console_ to take affect.

By default, it should be available in your development environment under
`/console`. The route is not automatically mounted in a production environment
and we strongly encourage you to keep it that way.

Configuration
-------------

> Today we have learned in the agony of war that great power involves great
> responsibility.
>
> -- <cite>Franklin D. Roosevelt</cite>

_Web Console_ is a powerful tool. It allows you to execute arbitrary code on
the server, so you should be very careful, who you give access to it.

### config.web_console.whitelisted_ips

By default, only requests coming from `127.0.0.1` are allowed.

`config.web_console.whitelisted_ips` lets you control which IP's have access to
the console.

Let's say you want to share your console with just that one roommate, you like
and his/her IP is `192.168.0.100`.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.whitelisted_ips = %w( 127.0.0.1 192.168.0.100 )
end
```

From the example, you can guess that `config.web_console.whitelisted_ips`
accepts an array of ip addresses, provided as strings. An important thing to
note here is that, we won't push `127.0.0.1` if you manually set the option!

Now let's assume you like all of your roommates. Instead of enumerating their
IP's, you can whitelist the whole private network. Now every time their IP's
change, you'll have them covered.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.whitelisted_ips = '192.168.0.0/16'
end
```

You can see that `config.web_console.whitelisted_ips` accepts plains strings
too. More than that, they can cover whole networks.

Again, note that this network doesn't allow `127.0.0.1`.  If you want to access
the console, you have to do so from it's external IP or add `127.0.0.1` to the
mix.

### config.web_console.default_mount_path

By default, the console will be automatically mounted on `/console`.

_(This happens only in the development and test environments!)_.

Say you want to mount the console to `/debug`, so you can more easily remember
where to go, when your application needs debugging.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.default_mount_path = '/debug'
end
```

### config.web_console.automount

If you want to explicitly mount `WebConsole::Engine`, you can prevent the
automatic mount by setting this option to `false`.

### config.web_console.command

By default, _Web Console_ will run `Rails.root.join('bin/rails console)` to
spawn you a fresh Rails console.

One of the advantages of being a [VT100] emulator is that _Web Console_ can run
most of your terminal applications.

Let say _(for some reason)_ you can't run SSH on your server machine. You can
run [`login`][login] instead to let users sign into the host system.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.command = 'sudo /bin/login'
end
```

_Poor man's solution to SSH._ ![boom](http://f.cl.ly/items/3n2h0p1w0B261u2d201b/boom.png)

**If you ever decide to use _Web Console_ that way, use SSL to encrypt the
traffic, otherwise all the input can be easily sniffed!**

### config.web_console.timeout

You may have noticed that _Web Console_ client sends a lot of requests to the
server. And by a lot, we really mean, **a lot** _(every few milliseconds)_.
We do this since we can't reliably predict when the output of your command
execution will come available, so we poll for it.

This option control how much will the server wait on the process output pipe
for input, before signalling the client to try again.

Maybe some day Web Sockets or SSE can be used for more efficient communication.
Until that day, you can use long-polling as a more efficient way of
communication.

To enable long-polling, use [Puma] as your development server and add the
following to your configuration

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  # You have to explicitly enable the concurrency, as in development mode,
  # the falsy config.cache_classes implies no concurrency support.
  #
  # The concurrency is enabled by removing the Rack::Lock middleware, which
  # wraps each request in a mutex, effectively making the request handling
  # synchronous.
  config.allow_concurrency = true

  # For long-polling 45 seconds timeout seems reasonable.
  config.web_console.timeout = 45.seconds
end
```

FAQ
---

### I'm running JRuby and the console doesn't load.

While spawning processes is relatively cheap on _MRI_, this is not the case in
_JRuby_. Spawning another processes in _JRuby_ slow. Spawning another **JRuby**
process is even slower. Read more at the _JRuby_ [wiki].

**TL;DR** Give it a bit of time, it will load.

Test Drive
----------

If you just want to try the web-console, without having to go through the
trouble of installing it, we provide a [Docker] container that does that for
you.

To try it, install [Docker] first and then run the following snippet in your shell.

```bash
sudo docker build -t gsamokovarov/web-console github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console && sudo docker run -i -t !#:3
```

  [Docker]: http://www.docker.io/
  [Puma]: http://puma.io/
  [VT100]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VT100
  [login]: http://linux.die.net/man/1/login
  [video]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zjuJRXCLkHk
  [web-console-rails3]: https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console-rails3
  [wiki]: https://github.com/jruby/jruby/wiki/Improving-startup-time#avoid-spawning-sub-rubies

Commit message:

Documentation tweaks
- Use better grammar (it's -> its)
- Avoid repetition in some places
- Fix and shortify the docker install copy-paste snippet

README.markdown, after:

<p align=right>
  Documentation for:
  <a href=https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console/tree/v0.1.0>v0.1.0</a>
  <a href=https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console/tree/v0.2.0>v0.2.0</a>
</p>

Web Console [![Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/web-console.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/web-console) [![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/gsamokovarov/web-console.png)](https://travis-ci.org/gsamokovarov/web-console)
===========

There is no doubt that `rails console` is one of the most useful commands,
Rails has to offer. However, sometimes you can't easily access it, or maybe
you want to share it with a coworker without configuring remote desktop
server.

This is where _Web Console_ comes to the rescue. It gives you the same
`rails console` experience, right in the browser. Its not just a tool that
let's you evaluate Ruby code, there are a lot of those. Its a [VT100]
compatible terminal, running `rails console`.

You can see _Web Console_ in action at this [video].

Requirements
------------

_Web Console_ has been tested on the following rubies.

* _MRI Ruby_ 2.0.0
* _MRI Ruby_ 1.9.3
* _JRuby_ 1.7.4

_Rubunius_ in 1.9 mode may work, but it hasn't been tested.

_Web Console_ has been built explicitly for _Rails 4_. For a _Rails 3_
compatible build, check out the [web-console-rails3] project.

Installation
------------

To install it in your current application, add the following to your `Gemfile`.

```ruby
group :development do
  gem 'web-console', '~> 0.3.0'
end
```

After you save the `Gemfile` changes, make sure to run `bundle install` and
restart your server for the _Web Console_ to take affect.

By default, it should be available in your development environment under
`/console`. The route is not automatically mounted in a production environment
and we strongly encourage you to keep it that way.

Configuration
-------------

> Today we have learned in the agony of war that great power involves great
> responsibility.
>
> -- <cite>Franklin D. Roosevelt</cite>

_Web Console_ is a powerful tool. It allows you to execute arbitrary code on
the server, so you should be very careful, who you give access to it.

### config.web_console.whitelisted_ips

By default, only requests coming from `127.0.0.1` are allowed.

`config.web_console.whitelisted_ips` lets you control which IP's have access to
the console.

Let's say you want to share your console with just that one roommate, you like
and his/her IP is `192.168.0.100`.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.whitelisted_ips = %w( 127.0.0.1 192.168.0.100 )
end
```

From the example, you can guess that `config.web_console.whitelisted_ips`
accepts an array of ip addresses, provided as strings. An important thing to
note here is that, we won't push `127.0.0.1` if you manually set the option!

Now let's assume you like all of your roommates. Instead of enumerating their
IP's, you can whitelist the whole private network. Now every time their IP's
change, you'll have them covered.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.whitelisted_ips = '192.168.0.0/16'
end
```

You can see that `config.web_console.whitelisted_ips` accepts plains strings
too. More than that, they can cover whole networks.

Again, note that this network doesn't allow `127.0.0.1`.  If you want to access
the console, you have to do so from it's external IP or add `127.0.0.1` to the
mix.

### config.web_console.default_mount_path

By default, the console will be automatically mounted on `/console`.

_(This happens only in the development and test environments!)_.

Say you want to mount the console to `/debug`, so you can more easily remember
where to go, when your application needs debugging.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.default_mount_path = '/debug'
end
```

### config.web_console.automount

If you want to explicitly mount `WebConsole::Engine`, you can prevent the
automatic mount by setting this option to `false`.

### config.web_console.command

By default, _Web Console_ will run `Rails.root.join('bin/rails console)` to
spawn you a fresh Rails console.

One of the advantages of being a [VT100] emulator is that _Web Console_ can run
most of your terminal applications.

Let say _(for some reason)_ you can't run SSH on your server machine. You can
run [`login`][login] instead to let users sign into the host system.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  config.web_console.command = 'sudo /bin/login'
end
```

_Poor man's solution to SSH._ ![boom](http://f.cl.ly/items/3n2h0p1w0B261u2d201b/boom.png)

**If you ever decide to use _Web Console_ that way, use SSL to encrypt the
traffic, otherwise all the input can be easily sniffed!**

### config.web_console.timeout

You may have noticed that _Web Console_ client sends a lot of requests to the
server. And by a lot, we really mean, **a lot** _(every few milliseconds)_.
We do this since we can't reliably predict when the output of your command
execution will come available, so we poll for it.

This option control how much will the server wait on the process output pipe
for input, before signalling the client to try again.

Maybe some day Web Sockets or SSE can be used for more efficient communication.
Until that day, you can use long-polling. To enable it, use [Puma] as your
development server and add the following to your configuration.

```ruby
class Application < Rails::Application
  # You have to explicitly enable the concurrency, as in development mode,
  # the falsy config.cache_classes implies no concurrency support.
  #
  # The concurrency is enabled by removing the Rack::Lock middleware, which
  # wraps each request in a mutex, effectively making the request handling
  # synchronous.
  config.allow_concurrency = true

  # For long-polling 45 seconds timeout seems reasonable.
  config.web_console.timeout = 45.seconds
end
```

FAQ
---

### I'm running JRuby and the console doesn't load.

While spawning processes is relatively cheap on _MRI_, this is not the case in
_JRuby_. Spawning another process is slow. Spawning another **JRuby** process
is even slower. Read more about the problem at the _JRuby_ [wiki].

**TL;DR** Give it a bit of time, it will load.

Test Drive
----------

If you just want to try the web-console, without having to go through the
trouble of installing it, we provide a [Docker] container that does that for
you.

To try it, install [Docker] first and then run the following snippet in your shell.

```bash
sudo docker build -t gsamokovarov/web-console github.com/!#:4 && sudo docker run -i -t !#:4
```

  [Docker]: http://www.docker.io/
  [Puma]: http://puma.io/
  [VT100]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VT100
  [login]: http://linux.die.net/man/1/login
  [video]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zjuJRXCLkHk
  [web-console-rails3]: https://github.com/gsamokovarov/web-console-rails3
  [wiki]: https://github.com/jruby/jruby/wiki/Improving-startup-time#avoid-spawning-sub-rubies
